Bellow Message are from Faculty of Technological Studies
--------------------------------------------------------

History
The Faculty of Technological Studies was established in February, 2020 upon the approval of the University Grant Commission and the publication of Gazette Extraordinary (No. 2160/43 order under section 27(1), THE UNIVERSITIES ACT, No. 16 of 1978) by the Ministry of Higher Education, Technology and Innovation of Sri Lanka. The Faculty of Technological studies located in the Pampaimadu, Vavuniya (Northern Province).
The Faculty of Technological Studies will produce the graduates with the understanding of the fundamental knowledge and skill to perform the role as an efficient Technological professional with positive attitude and ethics necessary in fulfilling the responsibilities towards the clients and the society. They will have intellectual openings to engage in research and be innovative through independent learning to develop the required skills. Graduates with appropriate disciplines of technology could face the development challenges and meet the development goals of the Nation. Ministry of Higher Education foresee the present status of the Nation and decided to provide the required facilities to commence the Bachelors’ Degree programmes in different disciplines of Technology in some selected universities.
The Faculty of Technological studies consists of one academic department offering highly theory and practical oriented bachelor degree programme of Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology for the undergraduates.


Vision
Create a world-class Technical Education system; incorporates continuous improvement, student-centred engagement, applied research and technological innovation.

Mission
“To offer programmes that promote strong partnerships with industries in learning, disseminating knowledge and meeting international standards in research and teaching at the highest level of excellence”.

Dean's Message
I am greatly honored to welcome you all to the Faculty of Technological Studies, University of Vavuniya. The Faculty of Technological Studies was established as the 3rd Faculty of the University of Vavuniya in 2016 to accommodate the students of the newly initiated G.C.E Advanced Level Technology Stream.
The Faculty of Technological Studies currently offers one undergraduate Honours Degree program: Information Communication Technology, covering a broad range of Computer Science and IT Technologies in par with National Standards. The faculty also has planned to enroll students in the future for other Technology based degree programs: Bio-Systems and Engineering Technology. With the newly developed infrastructures and advanced laboratory facilities, the faculty keeps on emerging more than ever before, and every one of us is looking for an outstanding journey of technological knowledge.
I am confident that the multi-disciplinary academic programme of the faculty would help to sculpt the students as world recognized undergraduates, fulfilling the national and international requirements.
Finally, I would like to wish all the students for a happy and prosperous undergraduate life at the Faculty of Technological Studies, University of Vavuniya.

Mr. V. Senthooran
Dean/Faculty of Technological Studies.

Contact Info
Dean,
Faculty of Technological Studies,
University of Vavuniya,
Pampaimadu,
Vavuniya, Sri Lanka

+94 24 222 8240
deanfts@vau.ac.lk


Below Message are from Department of Information and Communication Technology
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

From the Head Desk
Welcome to the Department of Information and Communication Technology web site of the Faculty of Technological Studies, University of Vavuniya. Our website provides information on research, academic, teaching and administrative structures and activities of our department, thus highlighting the contributions.
Department of Information and Communication Technology (DICT) operates BICTHons degree program to the portfolio of Faculty of Technological Studies (FTS), University of Vavuniya from 2020. Catering to the divergent demands of the modern communication, BICT is fully geared to produce academically and technologically sound, self-confident, flexible, highly employable, internationally recognized, and high-quality graduates who are readily employable soon after the graduation. The syllabus of BICTHons will strike a balance between professional knowledge and personal skills and the department employs modern teaching aids and methodologies helping the students to keep abreast of the latest trends worldwide with updated infrastructure in tune with emerging technologies and future requirements.We welcome industrial partners for long-term research collaborations in software design and development, cyber security, artificial intelligence, embedded system technologies and networking technologies in the hope of solving their industrial problems in a consistent way, which is key for them to maintain sustainability and competitiveness in the long-term.
The Department of ICT, all trying to perform their duties in the best possible way having appetite and enthusiasm for their work and invites you to be a part of our journey towards being a world-class center of excellence in ICT education, training, and research.

With kind regards,

 V. Vinoharan BSc [Hons](Jaffna), MSc (Peradeniya), MPhil (Jaffna)

Head/Department of ICT.

Vision
Create a world-class Technical Education system; incorporates continuous improvement, student-centred engagement, applied research and technological innovation.

Mission
"To offer programmes that promote strong partnerships with industries in learning, disseminating knowledge and meeting international standards in research and teaching at the highest level of excellence".

Undergraduate Study
Our undergraduate study provides industry based learning along with applied research and technological innovation.


History
The Department of Information and Communication Technology was established along with the establishment of the Faculty of Technological Studies in the January, 2020. In line with the mission of the Faculty, the Department attempts for excellence in the field of Information Communication Technology through innovation and dissemination of knowledge and capacity building for socio-economic development of the nation.
The department contributes to the Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology Honours (BICTHons) degree Programme offered by the Faculty of Technological Studies. The ICT Department aims to cater to this demand by producing multidisciplinary ICT professionals. The prospective undergraduates are selected through the newly introduced Technology stream to the G.C.E. Advanced Level examination. In the degree programme students are exposed to multidisciplinary curricula including mini projects, internshipindustrial training, and a final year research project to improve variety of ICT skills and other required skills to make them well-rounded ICT professionals. The curriculum of the degree BICT degree program has been developed in line with the UGC instruction. This degree program is designed based on the “Degree Specialization and Course Module Guidelines of CSSL with the vision of fulfilling the gap between the industrial requirements and the competencies of graduates with more focus on applications of modern technologies in Information and Communication Technology.
The department strives to produce well-rounded graduates with a greater competing potential in the IT industry as engineers, managers, administrators, entrepreneurs and technical level workers. The prospective graduates could cope with the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) that rely on smart technology. The department possess qualified academics in conjunction with well-equipped laboratory facilities to cater the undergraduates with the theoretical as well as practical knowledge of the emerging sophisticated technologies



Department of Information and Communication technology
The Information and Communication Technology Stream was established in April 2016 in the Faculty of Applied Science of the Vavuniya Campus of the University of Jaffna by the Ministry of Higher Education on the recommendation of the UGC for the purpose of designing and offering a degree programme in Information and Communication Technology to those students who follow the Technology Stream at the advanced level. Currently, around 600 students are enrolled to the Vavuniya Campus by the UGC per an academic year. Early, the BICT degree programme is conducted under Department of Physical Science, Faculty of Applied Science. Then gradually a department is initiated as Department of Information and Communication Technology under Faculty of Technological Studies in 2020. Its offering of academic programme namely Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology, with the revisions of the syllabi in regular intervals, improvements of the laboratory facilities and strengthened human resources.

Department of ICT offers the following degree programme:

Bachelor of Information and Communication Technology (Honours).
